---
title: Sports
permalink: /our-experiences/active-and-healthy-living/cca/sports/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Co Curricular Activities
variant: tiptap
---
<p></p><h2><strong><u>Basketball (Boys)</u></strong></h2><p></p><p>Basketball CCA provides ample opportunities for pupils to learn the fundamental skills of basketball in a fun and engaging way and also inculcate life skills and values . Professional and experienced coaches will guide our basketballers.</p><p></p><p>&nbsp;<strong>Aims:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To equip students with the basic skills of basketball so that they can engage in lifelong pursuit of playing basketball as a sport.</p></li><li><p>To provide opportunities for pupils to student-athlete and represent the school as a team in National School Games Competitions</p></li><li><p>To inculcate the school values of Team Spirit, Graciousness, Perseverance, Self-Discipline and also Sportsmanship</p></li><li><p>To provide a platform for students to develop their leadership and team building skills.</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Core Values:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Team Spirit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Players will learn to play and work together, united as a team</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Graciousness</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Players<strong> </strong>will learn to win humbly and to accept defeat graciously. Players show respect to everyone in the court.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Perseverance</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Players will have to persevere as training increases in intensity and not give up during game play.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Self-discipline</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Players will be self-disciplined to come for training and to improve on their individual skills and exercise self-control for the benefit of the team.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>Essential skills to be taught</strong>:</p><p>- Basic individual skills of basketball (Dribbling, Passing, Shooting, Layup, Rebound)</p><p>- Self-discipline and sportsmanship in a team sport.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Commitment Level</strong>:</p><p>1)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The competitive team trains twice a week on Monday and Thursday afternoons. Each session lasts 2 hours. Additional training and friendly matches will also be arranged during the holidays to prepare the players for competitions.</p><p>2)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The recreational team trains once a week. Students showing potential might be selected to train with the competitive team.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Training Frequency (Day and Time):</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Day/ Category</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Boys</strong></p><p><strong>(Recreational Team)</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Boys</strong></p><p><strong>(Competitive Team)</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Monday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.30pm - 4.30pm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.30pm - 4.30pm</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Thursday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>NA</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.00pm – 4.00pm</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;Teachers in charge: </strong>Mr Thomas Tan (I/C) , Mr Asyraf (2nd I/C), Mr Moses Shao and Mdm Lim Xiaowei</p><p></p><p><strong>Progression:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Beginner</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Intermediate</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Remarks</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Basic skills and game concepts</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Advance skills and game concepts</p><p></p><p>Junior &amp; Senior School Team Representation</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><br></p><p></p><p><strong>Competition and Past Achievements</strong></p><p>Selected P4, P5 and P6 pupils will represent the school in the annual Inter-Primary School Basketball Championships.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>2023</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Junior Boys - Tier 1 National School Games 3v3 Basketball- 1st</p><p>Senior Boys -&nbsp; NSG Basketball South Zone Championship- 3rd,</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NSG Basketball Nationals Championship- Top 8</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>2022</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp; Junior Boys - Tier 1 National School Games 3v3 Basketball</p><p>Senior Boys - Top 8 in Inter-Primary South Zone Basketball Championship</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>2019</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Junior Boys - Tier 1 National School Games 3v3 Basketball</p><p>Participated in Inter-Primary South Zone Basketball Championship (Senior Boys)</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>2018</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Inter-Primary School South Zone</p><p>Senior Boys - 1st Runners Up</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;<br></p><h2><strong><u>Netball (Girls)</u></strong></h2><p>Netball in TGPS is a platform where girls not only learn how to play the game but they will also improve in agility and ball handling skills with the guidance of an experienced coach. Netball being a team sport also requires the girls to communicate and work well with others.</p><p></p><p>The ones who play together stay together. Training and participating in competitions will provide the girls with wonderful opportunities to learn self-discipline, to persevere and grow, to build life-long friendships and create lasting memories on and off the court.</p><p></p><p></p><p><strong>Aims:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To equip the girls with the basic skills of the game, allowing them to know the game and know how to play the game.</p></li><li><p>To develop values and character that can be transferable and applicable to their academics and also their lives.</p></li><li><p>To mould the character and instil the school values in our girls through the game.</p></li><li><p>To provide opportunities for talented students to represent the school as a team in Zonal and National Competitions</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Essential skills to be taught</strong>:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Ball passes</p></li><li><p>Footwork</p></li><li><p>Pivot</p></li><li><p>Strategies &amp; Positioning</p></li></ul><p><br></p><p></p><p></p><p><strong>Core Values:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Team Spirit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Netballers will communicate and work well with each other in and out of court.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Graciousness</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Netballers<strong> </strong>will be respectful to teachers, coaches and teammates and be gracious during training in actions and in words.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Perseverance</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Netballers will have to persevere to master different skill sets towards self-improvement.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Self-discipline</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Netballers will be self-disciplined to come for training sessions and to improve on their individual skills.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Commitment Level</strong>: The Netball members will train once a week (Fridays) for 2 hours each</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; session.</p><p></p><p>&nbsp; <strong>Training Frequency (Day and Time):</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>DAY</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>VENUE</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Friday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.00pm to 4.00pm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Indoor Sports Hall (ISH)</p><p>(Level 4)</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Teachers in charge: </strong>Ms Chew Hui Fang (I/C) and Mdm Samra (2nd I/C)<br></p><p></p><p><strong>Progression:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Beginner</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Intermediate</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Remarks</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Learning of basic skills and game rules</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Learning of advanced skills and game strategies</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p><p><strong>Competition and Past Achievements</strong></p><p>Selected girls will represent the school in the Zonals (South Zone) and National NSG competitions.</p><p></p><p><br></p><p></p><h2><strong><u>Sports and Wellness</u></strong></h2><h2></h2><p>The Sports and Wellness Club welcomes anyone who is keen to take part in sports and games in a non-competitive setting. Through our programmes, we invite students to grow in wellness. Students will Learn-to-Play new Sports and be introduced to concepts of Wellness such as physical and mental well-being.</p><p></p><p><strong>Aims:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To encourage club members to lead an active lifestyle through regular exercise and healthy diet choices</p></li><li><p>To impart basic skills in some sports and games through a modular system</p></li><li><p>To mould the character and reinforce the school values in every member through sports and games</p></li><li><p>To encourage members to promote healthy living to their family members and peers</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Every term, the CCA will offer one/two sports modules for the pupils to learn a new sport or game. In addition, we will share various lessons on healthy living; helping pupils to practically start living an active and healthy lifestyle.</p><p></p><p><strong>Training Frequency (Day and Time):</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>DAY</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>VENUE</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Friday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.00pm to 4.00pm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Indoor Sports Hall (ISH)</p><p>(Level 1)</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Commitment Level</strong>:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>All members are expected to demonstrate the school values at all times</p></li><li><p>All members must be willing to learn new skills in a variety of sports and games</p></li><li><p>All members must do their best to attend all sessions (Face-to-Face or eCCA)</p></li></ul><p></p><p><strong>Teachers in charge: </strong>Mr Vivek Nair (I/C) , Mr Donovan Teo (2nd I/C) , Mr Sridhar Naidu , Ms Peh Bee Ling</p><p></p><p><strong>Progression:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Stages</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Description</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Beginner</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Members are introduced to various sports at the Learn-To-Play level.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Intermediate</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Members who show talent in the specific sports will be introduced to more advanced skills and tactics.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Core Values:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Team Spirit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils work together as a team to learn new sports and associated skills.</p><p>Pupils encouraged to communicate effectively.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Graciousness</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils learn to give positive feedback to their peers.</p><p>Pupils assist peers in acquiring new skills through peer coaching.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Perseverance</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils persevere in the acquisition of new techniques, through drills and practice to enhance their skill set and game knowledge.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Self-Discipline</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils exercise self-discipline in adhering to rules.</p><p>Pupils serve as role models to their peers.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h2><strong><u>Volleyball (Boys)</u></strong></h2><p></p><p></p><p>Volleyball CCA aims to promote the game and excite pupils through the learning and acquisition of fundamental volleyball techniques.&nbsp; Volleyball CCA provides pupils with opportunities to learn about the game of volleyball through various platforms and modified games.&nbsp; Pupils learn and acquire volleyball techniques such as digging, setting, receiving, serving and spiking, and apply the techniques they have learnt in gameplay scenarios.</p><p></p><p>The CCA also aims to develop keen and confident learners who possess the essential 21st century skills such as having the confidence and collaborative skills to work together to achieve a common goal.</p><p></p><p><strong>Aims:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To develop keen learners and confident players</p></li><li><p>To spark an interest in learning the game</p></li><li><p>To equip pupils with fundamental techniques to play a volleyball game</p></li><li><p>To progressively learn advanced techniques</p></li></ul><p></p><p><strong>Essential Techniques:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Fundamental skills set – dig, set, serve, spike</p></li><li><p>Fluid body movements to execute a technique</p></li><li><p>Basic gameplay rotation</p></li></ul><p></p><p><strong>Core Values:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Team Spirit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils learn to work together as a team to learn/execute new techniques.</p><p>Pupils learn to take initiative and communicate effectively.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Graciousness</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils learn to give positive feedback to their peers.</p><p>Pupils assist peers in acquiring new techniques through peer coaching.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Perseverance</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils persevere in the acquisition of new techniques, following through drills and practices to enhance their skills set.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Self-Discipline</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pupils exercise self-discipline in adhering to rules and regulations set.</p><p>Pupils serve as role models to their peers.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Commitment Level:</strong></p><p>Members in the <strong>recreational team</strong> will train <strong>once</strong> a week (Mondays) for 2 hours each time.</p><p>Members in the<strong> competitive team</strong> will train <strong>twice</strong> a week (Mondays and Fridays) for 2 hours each time.</p><p></p><p><strong>Session Frequency: </strong>Recreational Team -<strong> </strong>Mondays, 2:30pm to 4:30pm</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Competitive Team - Mondays, 2:30pm to 4:30pm <strong>and</strong></p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Fridays, 2:00pm to 4:00pm</p><p></p><p><strong>Teachers in charge: </strong>Ms Bernice Tan (I/C), Mr Andy See (2nd I/C), Ms Teo Wei Ren<br></p>